README.md, before:

# Core Utils

[Leia em Português](README.pt-br.md)

**Objective:** To show my knowledge about the C language and its particularities.

This project is a collection of my own implementations of standard C library functions. I am building this to understand how things work under the hood.

## How to Run

You can compile the project using `gcc`:

```bash
gcc main.c -I./include -o main.out
./main.out
```

## Functions

### String Utils

*my_strlen*: 
    - Args: char array (String).
    - Return: integer (String lenght).
    - Process: 
        I start by declaring a `lenght` variable outside the loop to prevent it from resetting. A while loop was choosen because i prefer to work with pointer arithmetic. (But a `for` loop with a control variable `i` could also be used).
        Inside the while loop, we increment both the `length` counter and the pointer itself. Since `*str` starts by pointing to the first element (`str[0]`), incrementing the pointer allows us to step through each memory address until we hit the `\0` which has a value of 0 (`false`). Finally, we return the length.
*my_tolower:
    - Args: char array (String).
    - Return: char array (String).
    - Process:
        I start by declaring the variable that will serve to define the size of the string (using the previously created function) and allocating a new string with malloc. Although characters are always 1 byte, I chose to make sizeof(char) explicit for better readability. Then, I ensure that the allocation was successful (otherwise, the function returns NULL). Next, I declare the pointer *ptr, which will serve as a cursor, while *new_string will function as our anchor (base pointer). After that, I define the distance between 'a' and 'A' to facilitate the conversion, since this value is constant in the ASCII table. I then start the while loop, chosen to work with pointer arithmetic. The first step of the conversion is to know if the element of *str is in uppercase; to do this, we just need to check if it is within the range ['A', 'Z'] (which the compiler will understand as integers due to ASCII encoding). If it is, I define that the cursor pointer *ptr will receive the value of *str plus the calculated distance, converting the character to lowercase. Then, we increment the cursor pointer and the base array to move to the next character in both. We don't do this increment in *new_string, as we need this pointer to continue pointing to the first element of the array for the final return. If the character is already lowercase or a symbol, *ptr simply receives the original value of *str. Finally, we point the last element of *ptr as the null terminator \0 and return new_str.

### Math Utils
(Coming soon...)

Commit message:

Update README explanations and improve string_utils items

README.md, after:

# Deep Dive into C.

[Read in Portuguese](README.pt-br.md)

**Objective:** To show my knowledge about the C language and its particularities.

This project is a collection of my own implementations of libraries and algorithms, aiming to understand how things work under the hood.

## How to Run

You can compile the project using `gcc`:

```bash
gcc main.c -I./include -o main.out
./main.out
```

## Functions

### String Utils

*my_strlen*: 
    - Args: char array (String).
    - Return: integer (String length).
    - Process: 
        I start by declaring a `length` variable outside the loop to prevent it from resetting. A `while` loop was chosen because I prefer to work with pointer arithmetic. (But a `for` loop with a control variable `i` could also be used).
        Inside the `while` loop, we increment both the `length` counter and the pointer itself. Since `*str` starts by pointing to the first element (`str[0]`), incrementing the pointer allows us to step through each memory address until we hit the `\0` which has a value of 0 (`false`). Finally, we return the length.

*my_tolower*:
    - Args: char array (String).
    - Return: char array (String).
    - Process:
        I start by declaring the variable that will serve to define the size of the string (using the previously created function) and allocating a new string with `malloc`. Although characters are always 1 byte, I chose to make `sizeof(char)` explicit for better readability. Then, I ensure that the allocation was successful (otherwise, the function returns NULL). Next, I declare the pointer `*ptr`, which will serve as a cursor, while `*new_string` will function as our anchor. After that, I define the distance between 'a' and 'A' to facilitate the conversion, since this value is constant in the ASCII table. I then start the `while` loop, chosen to work with pointer arithmetic. The first step of the conversion is to know if the element of `*str` is in uppercase; to do this, we just need to check if it is within the range ['A', 'Z'] (which the compiler will understand as integers due to ASCII encoding). If it is, I define that the cursor pointer `*ptr` will receive the value of `*str` plus the calculated distance, converting the character to lowercase. Then, we increment the cursor pointer and the base array to move to the next character in both. We don't do this increment in `*new_string`, as we need this pointer to continue pointing to the first element of the array for the final return. If the character is already lowercase or a symbol, `*ptr` simply receives the original value of `*str`. Finally, we point the last element of `*ptr` as the null terminator `\0` and return `new_str`.

*my_toupper*:
    - Args: char array (String).
    - Return: char array (String).
    - Process: We follow the same process as `my_tolower`, changing only the `if (*str >= 'A' && *str <= 'Z')` to `if (*str >= 'a' && *str <= 'z')`, since we now want to update lowercase values.

*my_strcmp*:
    - Args: const char *st1, const char *str2
    - Return: Integer (If the strings are the same size it returns 0, if string 2 is larger it returns 1, and if string 1 is smaller it returns -1).
    - Process: I start by declaring the variables that will receive the sizes of the strings, and using my own `my_strlen` I check the size of each string. After that, I start the first layer of verification which is about the sizes of each string and begin the process of verification character by character with the same logic of pointer arithmetic (here it wasn't necessary to create an anchor because the word itself wouldn't be necessary for the function).

*my_strcmp_percent*:
    - const char *st1, const char *str2
    - Return: Double (Percentage of equality between strings).
    - Process: I start by declaring the necessary variables (size of the strings and the percentage of difference between them). After that, I check the size of each one to start the `while` loop with the smaller one; once that's done, I perform the character-by-character verification with the same logic of pointer arithmetic. The logic used to analyze the difference between characters is based on the distance between each character in relation to the first, however, errors have already been noted in the tests and this function will probably be replaced by the use of Levenshtein distance in the future.

### Math Utils
(Coming soon...)
